---
layout:        post
title:         "Lawrence English"
date:          2010-11-08 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/lawrence-english-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/lawrence-english.jpg
permalink:     lawrence-english
---

<b>What exactly is your role in <a href=http://www.room40.org/>Room 40</a>, do you curate it or do you own it?</b>

I guess it's probably both of those things. The label's not, in my mind, about signing the latest artist to make the latest album. It's more of a curatorial art project where, as each record adds to this catalogue of work, the end result is greater than the sum of its parts. Ideally in 15, 20, or 30 years' time people can actually look at the entire catalogue and listen to it and hear this spectrum of sound: people that are all interested in the same kinds of ideas and same kinds of approaches to very intricate, deep listening.

<b>Is there anything in particular you look for when thinking of who to add to the catalogue?</b>

It's an interesting one because, when you listen the recordings, they're not linked thematically or by a genre or anything like that. Really, what I'm interested in when I work with people and when I listen to music is that I want to return to something and have a different experience every time. What I really love about all the records we've been able to put out on Room 40, some of which I've listened to hundreds and hundreds of times, is that every time I listen to it there's some little detail, some tone, some texture, something in the recording that I haven't heard before. I get really excited about that because often I'll come back to records having not listened to them for a couple of years and I'll have the same kind of excitement and engagement about hearing it that I did the very first time. I think for me then the pleasure of doing something like Room 40 is that other people can have that same enjoyment.

<b>How did you come to be involved in sound art?</b>

My interest in sound comes out of a very simple experience I had when I was a kid. When I was very young I used to go birdwatching with my dad. There was a particular kind of bird called a reed-warbler, it's a really small, brown marsh bird. It basically lives in very dense reeds. We'd go looking for this bird when I was a kid and my dad would say, Listen, what you have to do is close your eyes and listen for where the bird is. Then once you get an idea of the space the bird is in, open your eyes and look for the bird.  It almost always worked. You'd find this bird, whereas if you'd just looked in the reeds you'd see nothing. If you listened you got an idea of space and a sense of where it might be, then you understood it. So, while I wasn't thinking about it at the time, for me that's probably my first experience with this idea of space and sound, which are basically the fundamental building blocks of what I've been interested in since then. A large percentage of the concert tonight involved actually playing the room, physically manipulating objects and, unfortunately, making glass bottles fall off and smash on the ground. That was an unexpected side effect, but it's very much about this idea of how sound influences and can be shaped by the space in which it is found.

<b>What's the funnest field recording you've done?</b>

The airport one was pretty special. In this age of terror, it's very unusual for somebody with a large black stick and a furry bazooka to be able to stand at the end of the tarmac and point it at planes. I've been really fortunate to go to some amazing places. I've been to the Amazon to make some recordings there. This year in February I got the chance to go to Antarctica which was absolutely amazing. I had to jump in the ocean and swim to rescue gear. That's certainly one of the more curious side-effects of recent field recordings for me.

I get excited about chance happenings. That's something I really enjoy about field recording. You actually get that chance to be out there, being quiet, sitting on your own in the middle of nowhere for several hours at a time. You'd be amazed what comes out of the forest. I've seen beetles the size of my fist flying at me in the middle of the night. I've watched howler monkeys crawling from trees. Those moments happen sometimes even when you're not recording. Sometimes the things you don't get are the things that stay with you the most. I really like that, it's like the fish that got away.

It's really a pleasurable process, to go to locations and to listen. I've just written a book, called <i>Site-Listening</i>, which is, in very simple terms, about this idea of site-seeing for the ears. Rather than going to somewhere and saying, That's the Eiffel Tower, or, That's the Brandenburg Gate,  or, That's where the twin towers were, you go somewhere and you actually listen. Each time a different person goes they're going to hear different things because sound is not constant, it varies and it's transformed. The seasons are different. Right now, here in the UK, it's fall. You walk around and there's that wonderful sound of leaves under your feet. You don't get that in the spring. You don't get that in summer. You get a lot less birds right now than you do in high summer. It's always changing and I think that's what's really fascinating about this idea of site-listening. You are never going to have the same experience as somebody else.

<b>Which medium do you find the best for your art?</b>

I think I enjoy them all differently. Everything is a quite discrete experience. What you do in the studio, for example, never translates necessarily into live practice. The same goes for the art installation. Working in installation is probably the most direct way to create an experience with people because in some ways you're actually setting the circumstances in which people will experience the work entirely. Whereas, if you record an album, the moment you finish that album you hand it over to someone and they either listen to it with their ipod earphones in, or they put it on a home stereo, or they put it through a big PA. Your control ends at the point that you issue it and give it to the world. In a gallery context, you're controlling that to some degree.

<b>Do you feel like sound art is often kept in quarantine from the rest of the art world?</b>

Yeah. In the UK it's a very different circumstance to somewhere like Australia. I think in Australia what's interesting is that there's been no major sound retrospective yet. We haven't seen anything like, here in the UK, Sonic Boom in 2000, or in the United States the Whitney Biennial, Sonic Process in France. We haven't had any kind of high level gallery sound retrospective or major sound work presented. There's been sound and visual works, but not just sound or sound installation. I think the difficult thing with sound art is that it's not as much of a commodity as something like visual art or sculpture, where you're able to purchase an object. Purchasing an installation would be incredibly difficult. I think what's interesting is that sound artists are often trying to bridge that gap in some way. People like Christian Marclay. His new work Clocks is absolutely fantastic, because it really bridges this gap between sound and vision and a whole bunch of different things, all relating to this idea of clocks. I think a lot of his work really responds well to this idea of how to actually engage very wide audiences with the ideas of sound. I think this is the challenge for sound artists at the moment. How do you actually translate these ideas into something that can be widely experienced, understood, and, ideally, enjoyed?

<b>Are there particular attitudes you frequently encounter towards your music?</b>

I think it varies. I think the cultural qualities of the place do come into the way people engage with work. Here in the UK it's a lot like in the states and other countries, but when you go to somewhere like China, Japan, or parts of South East Asia, the way that people listen and the interest that they have in the work is actually quite different to other audiences. That comes down to factors like their exposure to different kinds of work and the cultural heritages that these people have. Japan has one of the first, what I would consider to be, sound installations, the Suikinkutsu, the Japanese water chimes. This has been going for hundreds of years and has been refined over a number of centuries. So clearly they've had a consciousness of sound, whether or not that's a widespread consciousness is debatable, but there is a consciousness there. In China right now the sound art scene is developing very rapidly. 10 years ago it was very much about noise, physicality and this rebellious, anarchistic power that sound had. Now there's a different kind of sensitivity coming from those places. There's a rapid transformation happening in lots of different countries. I find that very interesting, when you go to these places and present work, people are experiencing it in a different way that is unique to their neck of the woods.