---
layout:        post
title:         "Vice Cooler"
date:          2010-07-06 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/vice-cooler-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/vice-cooler.jpg
permalink:     vice-cooler
---

<b>So you just did a bunch of different videos recently, tell me about them?</b>

I did one this weekend with <a href=http://www.myspace.com/abevigoda>Abe Vigoda</a>. Then I did one for <a href=http://www.myspace.com/hollerado>Hollerado</a> yesterday. Then I'm working for one today for Ikey Owens. I have to start working on pre-production. He's in the Mars Volta and stuff. He has a video for his new band <a href=http://www.myspace.com/freemoralagents>Free Moral Agents</a>. Then I'm doing one for <a href=http://www.myspace.com/saintoftherose>Frankie and the Outs</a> the week after that. I just did one for <a href=http://vimeo.com/11645745>Male Bonding</a> and <a href=http://vimeo.com/10382897>Signals</a> earlier in the year.

<b>Is that quite a new thing for you?</b>

I mean it is and it isn't. For  <a href=http://www.xbxrx.com>XBXRX</a> in the 90s I put together video collages and stuff. Which like a lot of people ended up bootlegging and stuff so it's like people still talk to me about stuff in that and that was like collages of tour footage and then like us when we were kids or like my dad being a really weird dude or like found footage and stuff like that. Just like a really big collage. That's what those were. That's kinda where it started, that's when I was in high school. Then I started making some of my own videos for XBXRX and for <a href=http://www.hawnaytroof.com>Hawnay Troof</a> just because I didn't have a budget to work with. Then I did the <a href=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XUsr1mp2dKs&>Everything Is</a> video for Hawnay Troof that had the cat backing band. So like Signals saw that and asked me to do a video for them. Then I did that video and people saw that and Male Bonding asked me to do theirs as a result of the Signals one. So it's just kinda like snowballing. It's like, people could lose interest in me doing their videos any day now. I'm not expecting it to like last forever. But i have fun doing it and I'd like to keep doing it with bands that I like.

<b>Are you still working on pretty much no budget with these videos?</b>

It's like now I'm trying to only take on things that do have budgets because I don't have very much money and I'm busy working on my own stuff so it's like, I'm not into just like giving my ideas and time away completely free at this point, because it's like those could be used for my own things. And the people that I've been working with, the labels have budgets so that's what it is.

<b>What's been happening in the videos you've been making?</b>

The Abe Vigoda one's all in reverse and we used like 10 pounds of glitter confetti that I bought. It was on a soundstage in Holywood where like Weeds and Dexter have used the soundstage before. There's gonna be some other stuff like cut in and out throughout it. The Hollerado one has a lot more going on. It's more like a bunch of extreme things that are linked through one piece. Like one scene there'll be a cop then that cop will start the next scene with like a hula hoop then that hula hoop will be in the next scene so it's like things are linked back to back. There's like Jesus getting a blow job at an In and Out. He's carrying like a junk cross that's like made of garbage. Then them without heads in front of the Scientology building playing. Then them getting beat up.

<b>What about the new tracks you've recorded?</b>

I started working on a pop project that's just gonna be called Vice Cooler. For right now at least that's what I'm working on. Some of the stuff I've been making is gonna be on the next Hawnay Troof record but that stuff's kinda done. So I'm going into the studio with <a href=http://bradbreeck.com/>Brad Breeck</a> who was in the Mae Shi for a minute. Yeah, so like he's just this mega genius studio dude. I'm just getting stuff as close to done as it can be then I'm bringing it to him. We're starting that on July 4th.

<b>What's the deal with it?</b>

Basically like I was working on stuff for the new Hawnay Troof record and it was kinda getting divided. I feel like the past two records were kinda like a merging of really weird and poppy. Kinda like a middle ground. I feel like that middle ground was getting really divided with stuff that was writing. There was stuff that was either like really fucking off the deep end or stuff that was like really pop. Together, back to back, I mean it made sense but it would make more sense separated. I'm just kinda like separating it a bit. When it's finished both of them will be more cohesive.


<b>Are outfits and costumes fairly important to your work?</b>

Well I think first off it's like I even change my underwear or I change my socks because it's like very physical, you always end up with like beer on the clothes or someone's spit or my own spit or blood or sweat. It's like a cleanliness thing first off. Having one thing reserved to get dirty so everything else stays pretty clean. Then also I'm into the idea of presentation. If I had a larger budget or I was making more live I would have like more things like a light show and other people involved and probably like projections but I can't afford those things. The most I can really do is have an outfit that represents the idea of it.

WIth XBXRX the outfit idea is like symbolising unity within the band and a removal of the importance of the individual. If everybody's in the same thing it's like jail. Like they're all in the same thing. It's one cohesive idea as opposed to one person being flashier than the other person. It's all the same level. It takes away the personality of the individual as far as like visually. Some people would argue that's shitty but I think it's awesome. It makes it more of a symbolism of a compressed idea of all the individuals as one.

For Hawnay Troof it's like a similar idea but there's not other people involved live. People paid to get in so you wanna have the idea be as refined as possible and to the point so it's just part of the idea of showmanship and like y'know like visuals are just as important as music I think. That's why I don't like people standing unemotional when they play. I'm really not into that. It's the same idea. Physical movement is the same as what you're wearing.

<b>Is it important to have a project where it's just you, like Hawnay Troof, where you are the band?</b>

I dunno if it's necessarily like important or necessary. I think it's more of like I try to work all the time. I just went on a road trip with a friend of mine that had like nothing to do with music and I was like working on music in the car during that while we were driving. It's more of like there's ideas that seem appropriate for XBXRX or for <a href=http://www.myspace.com/vvkitvv>KIT</a> or for a remix and so it's more of like filtering out what idea makes the most sense with each thing and I couldn't get away with say like <a href=http://vimeo.com/7102867>Body Armageddon</a> and be like this is an XBXRX song. To me things seem clear as where they should be. I work with other people with Hawnay Troof and I would have live members but to be honest I can't afford it. I'm barely making enough to meet my own expenses. It's like one person as a necessity of the financial burden of being a touring musician.

<b>Creatively, is your way of working more collaborative or singular?</b>

Yeah, I mean it is to a degree. You can pretty much listen to those records and tell who wrote what. Usually the deal is someone comes in and I feel like everyone tries to write it loosely where there is room for people to individualise parts, but like most of the time people come in like, alright this is the verse this is the chorus this can maybe be a bridge, there's also like MP3s that people send back and forth. Most of the time it's relatively close to that MP3. Just learning the parts and kinda twisting it to their own comfort and stuff. But also, it is collaborative. It's not like sold as like it has to be this. I feel like that's the same deal with bands where I'm not involved with the songwriting at all like <a href=http://www.theraincoats.net/>Raincoats</a> or <a href=http://www.chicksonspeed.com/>Chicks on Speed</a>. When I come in to like practice with them they're usually like 99% of the time really into my take of what the idea is. Like my version of the drumming or like the way it should sound. So I feel like it's collaborative even if it's not like a recording thing.

<b>Do you think it's an essential element of survival that you spread yourself creatively over so many different domains?</b>

I think it's more of like noone else is going to do it. Like I'll take photos for my friends' records because noone else will do it or like I started directing because there was no budget and noone else would do it and it's the only option. I don't necessarily think I'm like a director. I'm a director because I do it but I'm not a director really, y'know what I mean. It's not my ambition. It's not a part of my drive whatsoever. If noone wanted me to make a video tomorrow or today like I wouldn't care. But I mean at the same time I like doing it and I'm into doing it and it's just kinda like an extension of the photography. So far everyone I've worked with I've been really into what I've been doing so it's a fun thing. It doesn't feel like work necessarily. I mean even that's collaborative too. Like you're bouncing ideas to them and they bounce back what they like or don't like and you like refine it and you learn from it. And those ideas can be like applied to music too and vice versa. Like yesterday the band was wanting to have a chainsaw in this one shot where there was somebody with no head. And I was like, i dunno if that's a good idea because it'd take away from the impact of the head being gone. Like it's better off being mysterious. And that was applied from ideas from music. Like when you're recording and there's a part that's meant to have a lot of impact. You don't put much impact before it because that'd take away from it and make it not stick out as much. So all these things kinda interact in your mind. Like they're not that divorced from each other. It's all the same thing. One creative idea could spawn in any direction.

But back to the idea of survival, right now it's like videos cost money to make. I had to buy ten pounds of glitter confetti for that shoot and streamers and I had to rent a soundstage. They're like trying to rent me the fans. Everything costs money so I'm not like balling or anything. But the hope is that like maybe someone eventually will see on of the videos who has a large budget and then I can like be comfortable for a second or something. So it's like, there's budgets but budgets get eaten up immediately. It's like even making videos you've got to be creative about how to make the budget work. Like how do we shoot on the walk of fame with like a murder scene without a permit and not have to pay for. Like how do you do that? These are all the things you deal with directing. You figure all those things out.

<b>With a project like Hawnay Troof you've played in front of all kinds of different sized crowds. Where does it feel most appropriate?</b>

I think there's not necessarily a right or wrong place for it. Y'know? I think I'm good at like evolving to the scenario. Like when I tour I could play a rave to like 5000 people one night then be playing a basement the next night to 5 people then an art gallery the next night to 100 then a bar to 50 people the next night then playing a festival to like 20000 the next night. All those scenarios are very different. I feel like the key isn't necessarily the venue, but how you adapt to the environment. That's more like the deal. Of course I love playing to more people. The more people the better, but the bottom line is I like playing and I like the idea of shows being an idea exchange. You go into an environment that's set for people to exchange ideas. I'm into that whether there's a few people or a bunch. Of course, for me it'd be an easier lifestyle if there were more people all the time consistently. I'd be able to like sleep when I tour, which would be cool. Small things like being able to come home and have some money to eat after I've paid my bills. That'd be nice. I'm more into the idea of like the performance thing being separate from the desire to eventually be comfortable.

<b>What do you think of the idea of enforcing on yourself the restriction of not making a profit?</b>

I think there should never be guilt involved with making money. There should be guilt if you alter what you're creating in order to make money. Then guilt would make sense. But if you're doing what you'd be doing already and money becomes involved then what's the big deal? I think people like think in order to have punk credibility you have to be like losing money. And i'm really not into that idea. I'm even into the idea of like corporate sponsorship. Like Nike paying for artists to do things. I like that. I'm into that. It's not bad to me. It's like Boredoms - 88 Boadrums was funded by Nike. There was a large bankroll and Nike funded it. There were people there who were talking about how bad that was. I was like, well, wouldn't you prefer to have a free event like this where 5000 people can come and see something for free and have this really amazing event that means a lot to people and have like nike shirts being given away? I would prefer that over all those people having to pay $80 because the budget was so high. Nike ate a lot of the costs in order to have shirts given away with their logos on it. To me it's like, who cares? To me it's more classist and privileged to be like, yeah those people should have paid to get in. It's like fuck that. I'm into the idea of like free art so if there's ways for some company to pay for the art to be free to people then it's like that's cool. That's good. If the Bordeoms were like eating McDonalds hamburgers on a hamburger commercial to me that's different.

<b>It seems like personal and introspective is important in Hawanay Troof</b>

Elliot Smith was always saying stuff like, oh I never write songs about myself. People are into this idea sometimes of you like writing about other people or writing about like whatever, things that aren't directly you. But I kinda think when you write about yourself it's a bit more interesting I think. It's like, not every single thing that I've ever written is about me, but a lot of it is. A lot of it is something that's at least within one degree. I feel like there's enough exaggeration in music or the arts. You look at Tupac and it's like dude he went to like a really expensive drama school. It's like people fronting or people mistaking the storytelling as like something that's autobiographical. I think what I would like to do is sort of like counteract that a little bit. What become a main motivator for that was <a href=http://www.myspace.com/barrbarr>Barr</a>. He's one of my favourite lyricists: it's all very personal, and I feel like that moved me more than like something that I knew was like just someone telling a story. I think if you can tell a story and it's about yourself then it's usually more interesting than anything else. I guess you can say that's a theme. It's like something that I've tried to stick to.

<b>What have you got lined up in terms of tours or releases?</b>

KIT has an album coming out in august on upset the rhythm, we're not gonna tour for it though which sucks, but there's like logistical problems with touring for it. Then I have a lot of stuff on the backburner that's like done. XBXRX has a ten song single and a video coming out also in August. I'm working on this solo thing which hopefully will be out like end of the year/next year.