---
layout:        post
title:         "Sun Araw"
date:          2010-11-24 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/sun-araw-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/sun-araw.jpg
permalink:     sun-araw
---

<b>Do you prefer working alone or working in a group?</b>

It's a cliché answer but they both totally engage different aspects of yourself. I guess on some level it's more fun to play in a band, to just be a piece of a bigger whole, because there's not so much pressure. I mean, even though Nick plays with me live and we share the load equally, because it's my project I feel psychologically like there's more weight. Playing in Magic Lantern or any of the other bands I play in is more fun because it's just about reacting to 4 other dudes. But I dunno, this fulfils me in a way that that doesn't, because it is so personal. It's a very introspective project.

<b>How do you feel about the process of translating from recordings to the live show?</b>

I really like having the live versions be very different from the recorded versions. I try to make an effort to separate them a little bit, just cuz it's fun to interpret it differently. It's difficult, because I write by improvising and I don't gig songs before they're recorded. Usually the recording is the first time it's appeared. So I do have to kinda like bring the recording to the group and figure out how we're going to recreate it. It requires a certain level of analysis which is sort of interesting, trying to figure out what is the essential core of the song and what parts to keep, because there's always more parts than we can play. A lot of songs change depending on who I'm playing with too. With Nick, the way he plays it makes things a lot more bluesy which is sorta fun. This tour has had a really funny like blues traveller/voyaging vibe.

<b>What is the <a href=http://www.laweekly.com/2010-06-10/music/lenticular-matters/%20/>lenticular object</a>?</b>

Man, that's a big question. It manifests itself in all sorts of ways. It's a perceptual gateway. Lenticular basically means lens-shaped. I think it's not an accident that most UFOs are shaped that way because they are a perceptual gateway. What they represent to me is usually some part of consciousness reaching out and knocking on a door and asking you to look through it for a minute. Whether there are or aren't actually physical objects and entities visiting this planet, I think that it says something that the UFO phenomenon in America really generated around the splitting of the atom. The late 40s or early 50s was really its height. That was a really heavy moment because that was in some ways the last hurrah, or the death knell of that clockwork modernist empirical universe. It exploded back into quarks and particles we can't understand.

<b>What's the relationship then between that idea, of lenticular objects, and your music?</b>

I'm not entirely sure. I'm definitely on the lookout for them when I'm jamming. That's what I'm looking for on some level. There's an integral relation between inner and outer space. People searching inner space and people searching outer space could often benefit from studying the other. Sun Araw is definitely, the way I treat it, an inner-space journey. It's the voyage that I'm on at the moment. Every album usually ends up having a pretty strong theme or being very different because it's mostly about where I'm at. With other bands I've been in, where it's the same way on some levels but it's not so personal, there is more of a concept behind the project. With Sun Araw I try not to have much of a concept. I try to just let it go wherever it will. You have to look out for the manifestations of the cosmic giggle, the obfuscating forces in the universe that are knocking, because we've shut them out and they want back in.

<b>What's the cosmic giggle?</b>

I think that's actually a term that <a href=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terence_McKenna>Terrance McKenna</a> made up, I'm not sure if he got it from somewhere else though. It means a lot of things but I think a big part of it is the obfuscating force. Human consciousness is the most complicated thing that we know of. There are probably more complicated systems in the universe, but we haven't discovered them. It's multifaceted and with the process of culture and civilisation there's always some whittling down of that consciousness. You're always limiting some aspects of it and augmenting others depending on what the nature of your culture is. I think the cosmic giggle are those forces that are attempting to reawaken the parts of it that we happen to be limiting at any given time. It's the visitor who's coming back. Who's saying, Hey, you woke something up and it's time to pay attention to it. That's why it necessarily is an obstacle to the current worldview, to science. It's the unexplained phenomenon which won't be tamed, won't be categorised into the accepted categories.

<b>Where would you say your interest in geometry comes from?</b>

Most of it's just visual, I just kinda mess with things because I like the way they look. But I am interested in geometry, and sacred geometry especially. I don't know as much about it as some people. Other dimensions really interest me. The ways that they can be poetically understood and applied to reality. There are certain shapes especially that I return to again and again because they have certain significance to me or they help me understand something.

<b>I've read you're interested in poets like Blake and Colleridge. Do you feel like the extent to which their creative process is laboured and planned clashes with the improvised nature of yours?</b>

Well it kinda happens in different stages. Like I said I write by purely improvising. Sometimes that takes a lot of effort and sometimes it doesn't. I think the best times are when it doesn't. What I take from that is usually a very small piece, a melodic object I remove from that and then that becomes the skeleton of a song, maybe it's a beat, maybe it's a guitar part, it could be anything. Then there's a great deal of labour that goes into basically flushing it out and making it breathe. That can be really difficult. Sometimes it's a melodic challenge, sometimes it's more technical, trying to get things to sit together in a way that opens spaces rather than closes then. Especially because I get kinda maximalist when I record. I love just to add more and more and more layers. On a basic level things then get cluttered very fast, so figuring out how to let them all breathe together can be very difficult. It means just staring at EQs for hours and trying to figure it out. That's never going to be anybody's favourite part of the process.

<b>What are your plans in terms of recordings right now?</b>

I finished recording the new record right before I left. I'm gonna mix it when I get back. I dunno how long it's gonna take. I'm gonna try taking it somewhere else and mixing it somewhere other than my house, so we'll see how that goes. It's another double album. I'm hoping for it to come out in the spring.

<b>Are any new themes your exploring?</b>

Yeah man. I mean everything ends up sounding kinda like Sun Araw I guess, but to me it sounds really different from anything I've done before. It's called <i>Ancient Romans</i>, so it's engaged with antiquity on some level. There's a lot of clavinet. I'm really into clavinet right now. I'm obsessed. I don't have one, but I've got a pretty good synth that has a really good sample on it. There are some house music elements to it. I think it's a lot more rhythmic than usual. It's not a dance record, but there is a lot of rhythmic juxtaposition going on. I'm still making sense of it though. Mixing it this time I'm interested in going pretty out there. I have an idea of where the songs are, but I'm willing to really start messing with things. I don't really know what it's gonna end up sounding like at all.