---
layout:        post
title:         "Wounded Knee"
date:          2010-07-15 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/wounded-knee-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/wounded-knee.jpg
permalink:     wounded-knee
---

<b>Would you say that playing in unconventional spaces is pretty important to you?</b>

Yeah, it's been a bit of an interest for a few years. Just from maybe a bit of fatigue at the conventional gig environments: they can be quite formalised evenings. Just sometimes I sorta saw places and spaces and just thought, aw wouldn't it be really good to do something here. And sometimes that's gone beyond being a bit of a daydream and actually happening. I think when you do things in unusual locations people come along just for the curiosity. the novelty of it being somewhere else. We did one in a tearoom on the seafront of the river Forth. I did a little video on myspace for instructions to get there. It was kinda in the late summer so it was quite light quite late and people could go down to the water between acts and stuff. It was quite special. If you find the right sorta places it could be fun.

<b>Do you like how long you can play for in weird places?</b>

Yeah definitely. It's kinda born out of playing at home anyway. Often you end up playing for hours at a time. It's just nice to get an opportunity to do that in performative environments. I was inspired by <a href=http://www.charlemagnepalestine.org/Charlemagne_Palestine/Charlemagne_Palestine_official_site.html>Charlemagne Palestine</a>, he's got a famous piece called Strumming Music on piano. He starts off just like picking out some notes. Then he just hammers away at a chord and gradually uses the sustain pedal. Just the physicality of him playing for that length of time was inspirational. Its fun to let the loops build up in a space which is quite reflective and reverberant. You get natural resonant frequencies coming into play. If it goes right you can get the room singing. Gallery spaces are good for that because they're normally quite reflective spaces anyway. You can tap into the sorta hidden energies of the room.

<b>Any weird shows you're planning?</b>

I'd like to play in some more reverberant spaces. There's a place in Berlin, the quite iconic victory column, the gold angel. It's in the film Wings of Desire. That's in the middle of a big roundabout with tunnels leading underneath it. They were designed by Albert Speer the Nazi architect. They're such wonderfully reverberant spaces. I did <a href=http://www.distancerecordings.com/dist008.php>some recordings</a> down there. I'd quite like to do some more singing in naturally reverberant spaces rather than putting a lot of digital reverb on it or pressing a pedal. It's nice for it to be from the physics or acoustics of the space.

<b>Tell me more about the recordings in the tunnel.</b>

It was just one recording that I edited down into smaller chunks. I'd been down there before. I was singing down into the space and the penny dropped that I should be at one end and the microphone at the other end. So i set it up and walked down to the other end, sat down, started to sing down into the space. After about 30 seconds a woman comes down. It's in German but you can hear her being like, aw what's going on here? She starts walking towards me and shouting me down. Saying it's too loud. Talking about the police. But she didn't come back. Sometimes, especially if there were kids coming in, they would shout back at me. Deliberately make themselves echo. So you get these kinda interventions of people walking through the space.

<b>I read a bit about you being interested in throat singing techniques. What's the relationship between that style and your music?</b>

There is a wee bit of that. It's definitely been an inspiration. it's quite hard to do. Sometimes I can sorta nail it but it's quite difficult. Need a bit of practice. I don't know. I've listened to Tuvan folk singing. When the recording is good it just sounds amazing. Some of those overtones. Your throat has to be really relaxed. You have to like open up the airways. There's a real sweet spot where you can catch the overtonal stuff. Some of the reviews about stuff on my album talk about it being quite feral and primal and stuff. I guess the throat singing stuff taps into that because it's all about the body and the physical stuff.

<b>It seems like your voice is becoming more and more a part of your shows. Is that conscious?</b>

I didn't used to sing so explicitly. I used to use a lot of machines. Samples of the voice and stuff. Over the years it's become more about developing my voice as the principle instrument. Putting myself in performative environments where it's very different from playing at home. There's like a stillness or centredness where you can be relaxed. It's a conscious thing, but it's like driving a car. You have to be really aware until you become proficient then it becomes second nature. I'm still learning about what my voice is capable of doing. Control of dynamics. Microphone placement. All these things. It's still a learning process. By consciously choosing to do away with too much hardware means less to worry about on stage beyond focussing on just the voice thing.

<b>Do you do a lot of shows that are exclusively vocal?</b>

I have. A guy near where I live started up an open mic thing. It attracts a lot of guys with their guitars. I just started to go down and do songs. That's inspired by folk traditions. Singers who'd just get up and sing unaccompanied. I've listened to and been inspired by a lot of singers doing that: old recordings of <a href=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sMsXFALeGIY>Ewan MacColl</a>, <a href=http://www.tradmusichall.com/jeannierobertson.htm>Jeannie Robertson</a>, Jimmy McBeath, <a href=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b6uitPvxpNM>John Strachan</a>. Tapping into what was a folk tradition. I'm interested in doing it more. Doing shows where it's just a cappella. Most of my shows use loop pedals as well. Just to get a bit of rhythm going. Sometimes it's used as a backing device. Sometimes it's like improvising with rhythmic vocalisations. One of the tracks on the album, The Sublime Frequencies, is about 20 minutes long. Recorded straight from the desk at a live show in Edinburgh. I did a lot of shows where I'd just get a delay going and ride on that rhythm and improvise and just sorta see where it went.

<b>Do you write any of your popper songs or are they mostly covers?</b>

It's a bit of a mixture. Having listened to and been influenced by a lot of older folk forms, be it work songs or call and response type rhythmic simple song structures, I'm maybe not worried so much about verse, chorus, now I need to write another verse, and then back to the chorus. Sometimes they're just like choruses in themselves because it's just repetition and working with the rhythm of the language and harmonising over the top and stuff. Sometimes it can be a sort of happy conflation of a simple song structure with a poppy melody. 3/4 years ago I'd think of a line and the line would just be the basis of the song. Now I just wait a bit and it goes with another line and I start to stitch together songs and narratives through these kinda fragments of phrases and stuff . I've started to write stuff down. I'll read a phrase in a book and the combination of words seems musical so I'll write that down and work with that.

<b>What do you think of the contrast between your nationalism and the underground music scene?</b>

It's easy to equate nationalism with something right wing and extremist, but in terms of Scottish nationalism and what the SNP have done to the Scottish political landscape, I still hear people sorta talk about this very sorta cliched view of the like crazy Nat's who are all right wingers or really, really vehemently anti-English, but I think the SNPs a pretty broad church. It was actually my father in law that was the biggest inspiration for really consciously committing to the SNP, especially around the time of the election. He's been a nationalist for many years. I just saw that this was really possibly the last opportunity for the SNP to really do it. I just thought about the political hegemony that Labour had in Scotland. I know that was a bulwark against Conservatism and the Thatcher years, but at the same time, in terms of good democracy it's not necessarily great to have the same party imbedded so deeply into the political frame. If nothing else, it was really interesting that the SNP got in. It means that there's a different political force in Scotland rather than in England, where it's a two horse race. Even the system in Scotland is better, with PR and the way that the parliament is set up. It's quite exciting really. Yet I see nationalism as a healthy thing. Especially for smaller nations. I don't see it as an unhealthy thing. To take it from a musical perspective. I see myself explicitly embracing folk, and Scottish folk. It's just an act of cultural preservation; maybe a worry that certain things might get lost. Certainly within an oral tradition, a singing tradition that's past on, that moves within political systems and structures, it's a bit more organic. There's something in those song forms that deserves to be kept. It gives a broader perspective of who we are as a nation, where we've come from, and where we might be going. I think it's important.

<b>You seem quite authentic with it.</b>

I don't want to take it lightly. I do a bit of research. I've come to take certain songs from a folk tradition and have the confidence to do them myself. There's a sense of wanting to do them justice. But at the end of the day it's something about the recordings. Listening to a singer sing and the songs that they sing is the thing. Then to choose to want to do it yourself. It goes beyond…

It's music isn't it. We can talk all we want about it, but there's ultimately something ineffable about what it is about music that grabs you so much. I've always liked the sound of the human voice. I've always like songs. Sometimes I do more contemporary songs. I do REM - You are the Everything. I think there's songs that could almost end up being a folk tradition. It just depends who keeps on singing them. It's really difficult to tell in 2 or 3 generations time what's gonna be considered a sorta traditional song.

Certain key recordings were these recordings from the 50s that Hamish Henderson and Alan Lomax did. Lomax did a lot for preserving folk forms in America. He came to the UK at the time when it wasn't fashionable to do so and went off around scotland. The way it's been compiled together: it starts off in the lowlands then moves north east, then it crosses over to the Western Isles with a lot of Gaelic songs and balladry in a completely different language. It's something almost alien, but it's part of Scotland. Just a few hours drive away. Even then in the 50s it would've been something more remote about the culture. Something a bit more preserved. Some of my views of old scottish culture are bound to be romantic. But I feel like I need to learn more so my views of it aren't all chocolate-boxy and sentimental. I have become more interested in scottish history and getting more of a sense of perspective. Making connections with the music, where it came from, what sort of communities fuelled such a culture.

<b>It seems like you're kinda a part of the noise scene or the avant garde, but you totally embrace melody and poppier elements. What do you think of that contrast?</b>

When I first started it was more explicitly experimental and abstract, and I got the chance to play gigs and stuff through the Edinburgh and Glasgow noise scenes. But I think both of those scenes have matured. There's just as much conservatism in a scene like noise as there is in a scene like folk. In any of these so called scenes there can be a hell of a lot of conservatism; I dunno if its about self preservation or being quite blinkered as to what constitutes noise and what constitutes folk and what doesn't. I've never really listened to music or lived my life in that way so I don't chose to be so single-tracked about my musical activites. I think it was a reflection of what I was listening to at the time. I was almost taking it to the extreme of how far can i go. Like Merzbow, or really extreme, skronking free jazz. You can't listen to it all the time though. You've really got to be in the right mood. I found myself listening to it less and less. I still like to go out to gigs and have something really full on and loud. Like a massive drone. The physicality of that can be great. I don't listen to a lot of harsh stuff any more though.

A lot of melody and stuff was always in there, just more sorta consciously so now. Just basically, a good test would be if your granny doesn't like it then maybe it's not such a good thing. Or if you couldn't sit down with her and explain why it is that you do this music then something's wrong. Interestingly, my gran has been quite a nice inroad into certain things. My gran's catholic and my wife's mum's side are catholics from Ayrshire. There was a strong singing tradition running through the families. Not professionally or anything, but if there was a family gathering at some houses they'd get a guitar out and sing. That's something you don't really see any more. It doesn't seem so organic any more. But I'm getting to the age now where we're thinking of having kids and a lot of our friends are having kids so maybe it's just a sorta coming of age thing. Thinking to years ahead maybe it will be nicer for it to just be a social thing rather than be about people paying money at a door to come to a gig, and there's a stage, and an audience, and you're the performer, and there's this gap between the two. Music always has fed social activity. It's not about this remote thing.