---
layout:        post
title:         "Gary War"
date:          2010-11-04 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/gary-war-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/gary-war.jpg
permalink:     gary-war
---

<b>What's the name about?</b>

Basically, it's kinda really stupid. I was hanging around with these death metal types and crashing on their couch in the early/mid 90's. We were listening to a lot of GWAR. So then Gary War kinda made sense with my real name. It doesn't actually make much sense, but it just came out that way. That's what I tried to change my name to when I was living at home. My parents said if I did they wouldn't let me stay any more. I moved out then changed it. It's my silly, stupid recording name. It's the best one I could think of that wasn't a band name. We had a hundred different band names but I changed them the next morning when I was sober. Nothing really sounded that cool so we stuck with this. I'm trying to come up with something better, but it's not working.

<b>What are some of the best shows you've played?</b>

We played a house party with the dudes from Ultimate Thrush last time we were in Glasgow. The cops came and threatened to take everybody's amplifiers. So we played the set really quickly with a bunch of urgency then ran, took our stuff, and hid it. It was great. Then the next day we got people yelling shit at us. Neighbours and stuff. Just like, too loud. I couldn't understand what they were saying. That show was the best we've been received. It was great.

Sometimes we have this guy Scary John who does our sound. Those shows are always good too. He lives in New York with us and he's all good with the panning and sound trickery. He knows what we're trying to do. He's an ex-marine so he kinda understands what we're going for. He's not scary though, that's the thing. He's really the sweetest guy. Well, he has tattoos and shit and a huge beard and he's really big and tough and stuff so people think he's scary, but he's really just the nicest guy.

<b>What's the history of Gary War?</b>

It started when Emily, who plays keyboards, and I moved from New York to Los Angeles. We started to do some of the recordings that I'd made and try to transpose them for a live setting. Then we met Eli and Justin. Eli plays drums and Justin decided he wanted to play bass so we tried to hash the songs out for live in early 2007. Since then we've been trying to practice as much as possible. We got OK at home then we got an opportunity to do a tour in Europe so we came in January. Then we got another opportunity to come again this time with Emily, who couldn't last time. So now we're trying to do it as a four-piece and do the songs as close to the records as possible with a full, live electronic band, which is kinda hard to do, but important too.

<b>How come that's important to you?</b>

Well, personally, if I have a record that I really like then I like to see how it's made being recreated live. I've played and done things that have been sample-based. That's cool and all, but what we're trying to do with these songs is make them pretty similar to how they come off on the albums. I think playing electronic machines is kinda good because you're actually engaged with what you're doing. You're not sampling, you're actually playing an electronic instrument which is good for trying to recreate the album and what you're trying to do. Instead of sampling, just do it live.

It's hard. It's really hard. You fuck up all the time. Anything can happen. We played in London last January, coming from Brighton. Justin didn't give a cigarette to this man on the street and he put a curse on us. I didn't believe too much in that stuff, but that night we had all this wacky shit happen. All this stuff broke, guitar strings went like 2 steps out of tune with no explanation. All this shit. It was kinda fun because after we finally got it together we played like 200 bpm versions of the songs because we were all flipped out on what the fuck was going on. It was a little bit more urgent. If we'd had samples they wouldn't have been cursed. We could've sped them up but it wouldn't be the same. We just like to play everything live because it's hard to do and it's like fun when you get it right. It's really fulfilling when it sounds really good, we feel very happy with our lives.

<b>Where does using so many effects come from?</b>

I think that blending textures and doing it in the context of tangible song-forms is a nice thing. I've been chasing it and trying to accomplish it for a long time. I think that's the reason for the effects. It just sounds better to me. I think the texture is nice to listen to. To dig through the layers. All the great records that I love, I listen to them and I hear new things every time. It's really inspiring, like, Oh they pulled a trick, I didn't hear that before. It makes my brain think in a different way. I think it's nice to listen to albums that can do that because they're long-lasting, and beautiful in that sense. They're nice, textural works of art and I think it's good to listen to. I like to do that with the stuff that we're trying to make.

<b>What have you got planned right now in terms of recordings and tours?</b>

We're going to make a new record that goes in a new direction, trying to evolve in the sense that we're trying to make challenging things for ourselves. The next step is to try to do what we're doing in a huge, very hi-fidelity sounding recording studio with some money. Often you get inspired by something, you record it however and it's done, that's how it is. You can try to rerecord it in a different situation subsequently but maybe something's missing or something new has come up. For me most of the time the urgency is gone for the idea. What we're trying to do is try to write a new very diverse album and try to make it as beautiful as possible and challenge myself as much as I can. That's all I really want to do with my life, try to make the best thing I can.