---
layout:        post
title:         "Coke Bust"
date:          2010-10-15 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/coke-bust-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/coke-bust.jpg
permalink:     coke-bust
---

<b>How's tour going?</b>

Nick: Tour has been awesome. It started out a little bit rough because a bunch of us missed our first flight and we lost 3 out of 5 of our bags. We got pulled over by the cops going into Amsterdam. We missed <a href=http://www.myspace.com/seeinred>Seein Red</a> and <a href=http://www.myspace.com/extortionextortion>Extortion</a> which we were bummed about. Then the next day we got a flat tire because we drove over a bolt in some lousy area. But this tour has been fucking tight. It's been fun, we're all having a great time.

<b>How do you feel you've been received?</b>

Jeremy: Really positive. You can tell in America who's been in a band that's been over to Europe by the way they treat you. They bring you back to their house and they've got food waiting. You can tell the ones who've heard about what happens because then they bring you over to their house and they've got like microwave egg waffles for you like, Yeah, here's breakfast.

Nick: Those are the ones who cook for you at all. Most of the time you just show up, you play, you get $60 and then drive to the next town.

Jeremy: Some places you get $11 in change and they're like, Ah well, it was donations. You gotta drive 7 hours? Sorry, have fun. Come back though.

Nick: That's what we're used to. That's just the normal thing for us. Then we come to Europe and we get all this special treatment. It's like dessert every meal.

<b>Do you have any horror stories from shows in the US?</b>

Chris: In like St. Louis or something the promoter didn't ask the house if he could do the show, he just thought we could all sneak in

Jeremy: He let us know when we were five minutes away from the show with a text message, Oh, by the way, the show that's supposed to happen in half an hour isn't happening.

Nick: Tucson, Arizona. Terrible. We played a show there with some black metal bands a couple of weeks before we came over here. It was terrible. One of the bands had a fog machine and a bunch of candles though. That was pretty tight.

Chris: Shane Embury from Napalm Death said we were awesome and that was kinda cool.

Jeremy: He also said he was gonna come to our show.

Chirs: Yeah, he didn't show up to our Birmingham gig.

Nick: What a fucking poser, man. I've been around longer than he has. He just started coming out to shows yesterday. What the fuck? I was born in 1986, man. Nah I'm just kidding, Napalm Death is tight.

<b>Do you feel like your style has changed over different recordings you've done?</b>

Nick: It's gotten faster. We started out as just kinda like a fast hardcore band. Then with Chris, of <a href=http://www.myspace.com/magrudergrind>Magrudergrind</a> fame, he's really sped things up: taken that Magrudergrind sound, that distinct Magrudergrind influence, and really brought it to the table for Coke Bust. It's really worked out very well for us so far.

Chris: Nick's Griptape and <a href=http://www.myspace.com/bailout>Bailout</a> fame has really stepped up the energy and the depth of the lyrics in the band. We're just trying to update our formulas from before and kinda take it to the next level.

<b>Is there anything that's got easier or harder to do?</b>

Nick: It's gotten a little bit harder to tour just because we've all gotten older and as you get older you get a lot more responsibilities. With that said, Chris is unemployed, Jubert's unemployed, I work for a fucking temp agency, I could quit tomorrow it doesn't even matter. Fuck yeah.

Jeremy: It's also gotten harder because we've all started or joined multiple other bands. I think between the four of us there's about ten bands. Probably more.

Nick: But, things have gotten easier. Touring has gotten easier. More people are willing to book shows for us so we don't have to play racist shows in Ohio. That's always good.

Chris: People are starting to catch on to Nick's roots in Bailout and Griptape.

Nick: Two absolutely crucial bands for the hardcore genre. We're criminally underrated. If you don't know Griptape, fuck you. Go home. You're a poser.

Chris: I guess I can't talk. I played in Griptape too.

<b>Do you think ultimately the responsibilities might win?</b>

Jeremy: I dunno, I'm 33 and I'm still living like I'm 18.  Fuck yeah.

Jubert: I'll always be in Coke Bust, no matter who else quits.