---
layout:        post
title:         "US Girls"
date:          2010-08-18 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/us-girls-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/us-girls.jpg
permalink:     us-girls
---

<b>How did you get started with US Girls?</b>

I was always playing in bands and with other people, and someone gave me a fourtrack and I started to try to make things at home alone and see how it works. Mostly just rudimentary practice exercises to keep my mind going. And it ended up that I really liked working alone, and the things I came up with. I really wanted to continue and see what happens, and I really got excited working alone. It was a different process I'd never done. It made me lose the desire to work with other people, when it was just so easy to work alone coz I'm always with myself so I can make music whenever I want. I don't have to meet up with someone or deal with someone else's schedule or anything like that. I've always been one for expressing my emotions and thoughts, and I always did that through making personal zines and things like that. This to me was like going back to that ideal of making zines by myself, and putting some pretty deep and dark feelings out there for people to see, whether they liked it or not, whether it was their scene or not. Just the act of doing it.

<b>Have you been over to Europe before?</b>

Mmhmm twice, yeah I've toured there. I loved it. It's better than touring the States. I get treated better, better food, nicer places to stay. Clean sheets and nice people and things like that.

<b>Where's your favourite place that you went to?</b>

Probably Belgium and Portugal. I just had a good time there, I made friends, and I got to do some dancing. It's nice going back to those places and seeing those friends again. It feels a little bit like home. Like homecoming or something.

<b>Do you feel like touring in the USA is quite a bad experience?</b>

It just depends if you like punishment. It's something I enjoyed I think when I was crazier and was more into going wild and being in a different place every day and didn't care about eating well or coming home with any money. It was just about the party. That can only last for so long. It's not about money at all, it's about sustaining health and not going home completely broke or negative money. It seems kind of impossible to do unless you're Animal Collective, or Best Coast. You kind of have to succumb to the devil of publicity and a lot of shit commercial stuff. In Europe you don't have to do that, you can just be yourself and be a weirdo and you don't have to be in a lot of magazines to have a nice tour y'know.

<b>When you play live, what's your set up?</b>

I just use cassettes, a couple of different tape players, some pedals, a microphone and a mixer. Sometimes a small keyboard but very rarely.

<b>What do you feel that lends to your performance?</b>

Not much. It's really boring to watch maybe, I'm not sure. I've never been an audience member for one of my shows. But it definitely gives an air of mystery or confusion coz people aren't really sure how I'm making the sounds and there's always the inevitable at the end of the set when the group of gearheads come around to see and they're expecting something much more advanced than what they find. It's just what works for me for now. I'm hoping to advance to something else, but y'know it takes time and money. The tape players I have now work.

<b>Do you ever plan to incorporate other people into it or is it something you want to keep just for you? </b>

I would like to. It would have to be the right people, and yknow the right time. It's very economical for me to be the only one touring in terms of funding and things like that, and plane tickets. They're much cheaper for one person than five people. But I'm doing some recording this fall where I'll be working with other people. I have worked with other people on recordings before but you know we'll see how it goes with the people this fall. If I can't live without them, they will have to be added to the lineup.

<b>Is there anything else you are involved in creatively aside from US GIRLS?</b>

I make music with a friend of mine, Kelly. She's my soulmate. We make music under the name Stone Pillow. It's the only other musical project I do other than playing lots of piano and things like that, but I've always made art and collages and sewn, I'm a big quilter, and I like to cook which to me is a creative outlet as well. Y'know I try to focus pretty heavily on the thing I'm doing now, but I always have things I like to do for fun. Making art and music is just kind of like eating three meals a day, it's something I will always do.

<b>Do you feel like working as an artist, and creating visual art, has an influence on how you operate as a musician?</b>

I don't know if it has influence, or if it's all wrapped up in the same kinda formula. I like simple things, I always have, and that translates into my music and things I create visually. And I think they kinda go hand in hand. I always just  like the simplest answer being the answer. It's Occam's razor. I don't remember exactly what Occam's razor is, it's like the most obvious solution or whatever. I guess to me that's the simplest solution and the obvious one. I just like things to be what they are and not much frills or pretending or dressing up, just kinda let them lie as they are, even if they may be simple to a fault.

<b>Have you got any last words?</b>

Everyone should listen to more Tom Petty.