---
layout:        post
title:         "Randy Randall"
date:          2010-10-12 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/randy-randall-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/randy-randall.jpg
permalink:     randy-randall
---

<b>What do you make of the success No Age has been met with?</b>

It still feels odd. We've been doing this for a little while so we have our legs underneath us, but in the beginning especially it was like, How does anybody other than us and maybe a few of our friends really get what we're doing? It just wasn't expected. Like the album <i>Nouns</i> was met with a lot of incredible praise and it was kinda shocking that anyone else would even take the time to listen to it let alone enjoy it. For us, we're just trying to please ourselves and do things we think sound good. The fact that anybody else got it meant we were more in tune with people than we thought for a lot of years. Something about the right time and the right place.

A few years ago Sasha Frere Jones wrote about us for the New Yorker. That was very early on for us as a band. We hadn't toured that much. I don't think <i>Nouns</i> had come out yet at that point. I think we'd recorded some things when he approached us. That's something that your aunts and uncles read, an older generation of people. That was really shocking. It feels like, Where do you go from there? It kinda feels like you reached your peak.

<b>You had some pretty big stuff recently as well though, like the Guardian.</b>

Yeah that's huge too. It's hard sometimes not being from a place. Like this DJ for Radio 1, Zane Lowe, asked us in to do an audio session. Not being from here we're like, That sounds fun, but they're like, No it's huge. Like the record label fill you in on this kinda thing and you're just like, OK. It's all very flattering, but it's like you have to go all the way there just to do that. Live sessions like that on the radio always sound bad to us. It never sounds right. We spend so long getting the sound right in the studio. To have to go in and just do something really quickly is hard. In a club you can go loud and there's an energy to it, with a moment that exists between all the people. But when you go in there it's just a cold, sterile studio with the vocals going straight in so it sounds like he's talking over it. We usually try to just say no because it just never sounds right.

<b>What do you feel is your biggest achievement?</b>

It's hard to say. I think for me personally the first month I paid rent was huge. That was it. That was my only goal. Yeah, it sounds stupid but playing music for so long and having so many 9-5 jobs, I always thought like if there was one day where I could pay rent and I all I did was play music that would be incredible. When that happened in 2007 I was done after that. Honestly, we've been able to do a lot of cool stuff, but all I've ever wanted to do is just pay rent and I did that. Everything else after that is just cool. To me, as a musician, trying to make art that you like and somehow make money from it is my goal. For a lot of years Dean and I worked any job that we could. Any job that would allow us to quit and go on tour, then hopefully we could come back and everything's fine. We just spent so long trying to do whatever we could to make it work, then one day it was just like, Oh man I didn't work a 9-5 job. All I did was play guitar for a whole month, and I can pay rent. I can't ask for much more than that.

<b>What was it like going to Japan?</b>

That place is just insane. It's like a whole other world. I'm sure it's not very foreign to the people from Japan, but for us, growing up where we did in California, it feels like a very foreign place. It's very cool. It's just a different world. It's funny because they have these incredibly well put together clubs, but they're very small. So it'll be a place that fits like 100 people, but with a huge PA and a bar and they've done a lot of work. It's like, All this for only 100 people? So we'll play and sell it out, but only to 100 people. That's cool I guess. It's hard to tell. You feel big but you don't really know if you're big or not. You can't get too caught up in that.

<b>How did your Bob Mould collab come about?</b>

It was funny. Dean met him in Barcelona at the Primavera festival and just kinda approached him as a fan and said, Hey, I'm a big fan. And he shocked Dean by saying, I'm a fan of you. He knew who our band were, it was just absurd. So they kept in contact and we were talking to the folks from ATP in New York. Flaming Lips were curating it and they only wanted to accept suggestions from bands who were willing to do something different so we thought, Oh maybe we could play some H端sker D端 songs. So we wrote Bob and he was gracious enough to accept. Dean wrote out a list of songs to see if Bob would want to play them and he picked out the ones he was willing to play. Then he gave us a list of songs he would play of ours and we said yes to all of them. He said no to some of our suggestions but we said yes to all of his. We alternated and did one H端sker D端 song, one No Age song; he played on ours, we played on his. It was great.

<b>Would you say the Smell was an important for your band?</b>

It was huge for us. The Smell was really the first place that Dean and I felt that we could actually play music. We both went there separately when we were younger and didn't know each other. We were both inspired by the venue. It just felt like anybody standing next to you could just get up and play. You didn't know who was in a band and who was just in the audience. It was open like that. That was inspiring to us. It was like, Man, I could play here. This isn't that scary. It doesn't have a big stage or lights or anything. Just a room where anyone can play. For me, I just played in my bedroom and made a lot of tapes and was just at home doing stuff. That was the first place I felt like I could play. It's cool cause it's off the map. There was no pressure. We never thought that we'd be able to get this far with the band as we have by playing there. It's just a really cool space that allowed us to grow and make mistakes as artists. I think that's hard when you're starting a band. No matter what you do, anything you do, you're going to suck for the first year or so at least. But you can't be afraid to do it, if you have a passion for it and love it you just have to do it and find a place that's nurturing enough and forgiving enough to let you suck for a year. Some places it's like you've got to be great the first show you play and if you're not then nobody'll give you a second chance. The Smell is very forgiving. It allowed us to just be a bad band for a long time. You just have to move past it. For us it was just kinda mellow enough to let us develop.

<b>What does the term DIY mean to you?</b>

It really means believing in yourself to me. I feel like I'm quite a shy person. I don't want to do anything too crazy. But DIY to me when I first started playing was just like, right you just do it. You don't have to worry about it. You just believe in yourself enough to get up there and do it. It also just means not asking for permission. You just get out there and do it and if it's wrong or not right then you learn from your mistakes and you keep going. It really is just doing it yourself, or not asking permission, or not waiting around for someone to ask you to do something. It's really just being proactive and saying, Hey I have an idea and here it is. That can apply to anything, to visual arts, or food, or fashion or whatever. You just make it and not because somebody asked you to make it. No one in the world wants to know what you have to say. You just have to say it and then eventually after a while somebody's ears will prick up and be like, Oh hey, I heard you did this thing. Then they'll take notice. I think it makes a lot of sense. You just use your own imagination to make the music you want to see happen. If you see something that doesn't exist and you have an idea for it then just make it and go from there. Believe in yourself and just do it. Nobody's ever going to ask you to make art, just believe enough in yourself, not to be an egomaniac, but just to feel like it's important. You're the only person who has your voice. Go out there and share it with the world.