---
layout:        post
title:         "Ian Vanek"
date:          2010-08-16 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/ian-vanek-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/ian-vanek.jpg
permalink:     ian-vanek
---

<b>So what's the video you're filming right now?</b>

We were working on it last night in New Jersey. We got a giant crane to flip the car that we were in. We had a camera tied down in the back of the car  and we were spinning around upside down. It was fucking scary. It's for The Dirge. It's an older one that we did, but we've always wanted to make a video for it. I got in a bad car accident this year in February. Everyone who's ever done it knows how scary it is to flip a car. This is the same experience hopefully. Then we just get out of the car and go play a concert and pass out from blood loss at the concert. Then this woman performs CPR on us. It's pretty cool. I'm stoked. The director's a cool guy and good at his job. We were running around with some mafia construction company in the middle of the night destroying cars. I'll never forget that.

<b>There's a female member on the new album.</b>

Yeah our friend Annie from the Soviettes. We ended up staying in her house in Minneapolis a lot. She became one of our many people who we met through touring that we consider to be part of our family. She has a daughter so she can't really come on the road that easily. We really wanted to write some songs with her. She was going through a tough time with her family situation so we came up with all these pretty amazing cathartic songs that are like love songs but like sad songs, which we don't really need that many more of. We were able to make some really cool songs with her out in Los Angeles. She happened to be out there recording as well so we got her to come into our recording studio to make a bunch of tunes with us so we were really lucky. The same producer who did <i>Like a Virgin</i> did that record so he was just like dialled and able to produce her vocals. She taught us a lot about music, she's like an actual, professional musician.

<b>How would you say Japanther's changed over the years?</b>

Well I'm really stoked to write all the songs at one time and rehearse them as a set and record them as a set. It has a lot more momentum as a whole. In the past we've always recorded over a full year and put together our album out of a bunch of weird recordings. Now we're working more with people who understand how to record sound rather than doing all home recordings. We do a lot of work at home and a lot of home recordings, but now we take that into the studio and try to make it something that people can dance to and have fun to on a large or small scale. I guess we just learned a lot about how to record things correctly and how to get a big fat 60s girl group garage sound. We love the Ramones, Phil Spector, big sounds of bands that were just like, Wow you've got to dance to this. This is your whole world right now. They've taken care of everything. I love that type of shit. I love hip hop music. Certain hip hop beats do that really well. That's why we work with samples and turntables and stuff.

<b>How big an impact has coming from New York had on the band?</b>

We have tonnes of people that we work with creatively in this town who are a big part of our band. Like this place <a href=http://thearmnyc.com/>The Arm Letterpress</a>. That's really a huge part of what we do because that's where we run our mail order and those people help us while we're travelling. We help them as much as we can. Certainly it's a huge part of our creative balance because we wouldn't be able to have any type of business if it wasn't for those guys.  There's like an energy that draws people to New York. When you're here you just wanna work on shit and get shit going. That's why we made that video with that kid and were able to do such successful work so fast with him, because he was just really hungry to work on something and we were ready to work hard on something. I think that's at the core of our band. To stay humble and stay hungry and work hard on things. New York will definitely humble you very fast and make you feel like a very small person.

We go to the beach all the time. New York is also a beach town. Not a lot of people think of that. A lot of people spend their time going to work every day, but we work in short bursts then go to the beach and hang out with girls and go surfing. Eat ice cream. Enjoy life. Life is short so just really try to enjoy life. We're really looking forward to touring and going to like Scotland cuz I know it's beautiful and breathtaking there. To go there and say, Woah that's a cool country. Go hiking. Play a show. Meet some nice people. Go back and be a diplomat for America and have them say Americans aren't all bad.

When we go on tour we try to like eat good food, go on good hikes, see nature spots, see the places that people would wanna go if they've lived there for like 15 years. That's what we wanna do. That's why we go on tour. We don't give a fuck about being famous. People who are famous are 75% assholes. Then the ones who are really, really famous and popular are usually pretty nice and chill. But that's not what we're interested in. That's not why we picked up our instruments. We're just interested in going to the beach, eating ice cream, hanging out with girls and going swimming. That's why we go on trips and tours. That's why we're doing what we're doing. Some people notice and that's really great and amazing but at the same time it doesn't fucking matter too much. I would just recommend everyone to just like live as much as they can.

<b>Where's your best fan base internationally?</b>

People in Canada and Australia really love our band. They're kinda outsider countries. I love those places. People all around Europe order our records and like our band. Probably y'know like Montreal and Toronto in Canada. It's like really, really close to our house, but it is over a border. We just played in Mexico City and it was fucking incredible. We played in Juarez, Mexico, where they have the supposed drug wars. There's a lot of nice beautiful people who just wanna hang out and dance and have fun there too. We love going wherever we can. Hopefully we're gonna go on this tour around the world where we buy a ticket that takes us to Australia, Tokyo, Tel Aviv, Rome, then up to the UK, and back to New York. We're gonna try to do that with a great band called <a href=http://www.myspace.com/shellshag>Shellshag</a> and just share it with them and have an adventure. To go all the way around the world is pretty cool when you call yourself a traveller or a vagabond. People always wanna label things or put that in interviews. Like a vagabond lifestyle of like really enjoying the moment and travelling and having fun and eating good food and searching for constant amazement. I guess that's what artists did a long time ago in the 20s. To constantly astonish yourself and be like, fuck, these are the most gorgeous hills we've ever hiked in, or like some beach that's like a tropical paradise in Australia. We love it. Just travelling and trying to keep in that good attitude that you can have a good time anywhere and meet the right people and when the struggles overcome you just smile and just say, This is the part where we sharpen our skills. These guys are assholes but what do we do and how do we deal with it. You'll find the right people later on that night just to help you do everything you need to do. You can sleep in train stations. That's fine. I think human beings should push their limits a little more. I think a lot of humans in this day and age would really cry and be sad about having to sleep in an airport or sleep in a bus station or not sleep for four days while you travel around the world, but to me the experience is greater than the sacrifice. That's the exciting part of going on tour and travelling and stuff i guess. I dunno where we wanna go. We wanna go everywhere. Texas. That's a whole other country. I love it there. Huge fanbase for us. Really another country that I don't understand that much, but they love our music I guess.

<b>Where has the best food?</b>

Best food. Fuck. See I like tacos so Mexico City. Australia has the right type of fish. I guess we eat reasonably. When we  go to Japan we're gonna be trying to eat noodles and squid on a stick. When we come to Scotland we'll try whatever the fuck we can. Probably not sheep stomach but whatever. I will try whatever. If it's like, you have to try this, then we better fucking try it whatever it is. I'll try whatever. But I love tacos man. My belly is fat from tacos and pizza. New York City you got the best pizza. California, Mexico and Texas they got the best tacos. Other than that dude I dunno. Everywhere's got something great.

<b>Do you have any more art shows coming up?</b>

Yeah actually at the <a href=http://www.pica.org/>Portland Institute of Contemporary Art</a> we're gonna do a shadow piece with like a giant shadow projection with our set of music and our shadows as well so that people don't have to look at our ugly faces. They'll watch a shadow puppet show that has a whole story. It's basically a children's story done by some of the kids who did <i>Don't Trust Anyone Over 30</i> and also <i>Dump the Body in Rikki Lake</i> with us. The same puppeteers who we really enjoyed collaborating with. They're kindred spirits but they're from a different world. We can join forces with them and take over a lot of institutions and get the right kinda cheque that an artist would deserve to make a nice piece of art where a lot of punk bands have to sit around fighting for their part of the money. Like the most you'd ever get paid is $2500 and then it's like, Wow, holy shit, but then you can say, We need $20,000 to do this project,  and they're like, Alright,  yeah that's about right. Let's do it. We've started dreaming a lot bigger. That's what we're gonna do. A shadow puppet show with the <a href=http://nightshadedynasty.blogspot.com/>Night Shades</a> shadow puppet collective. Portland is big on shadow puppets. There's like a huge puppet thing. They make <i>The Lion King</i> puppets all these crazy puppets. They're on the cutting edge of that. It's exciting because those types of venues will treat you in a different manner and catalogue the piece, and it becomes more about performance art which is something we love. That idea of punk just being a performance, being not so much about fashion.

We're also gonna collaborate with <a href=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Graham>Dan Graham</a> on a piece in Mexico that's like a skate thing. It's hard to describe. It's like a bowl that was cut in half then put back to back like a spine with a glass pyramid over the top so you can see yourself in the pyramid in the top as you air over the spine. It's like a weird public sculpture. So we're building that piece. Just trying to like collaborate and make the world a funner place to live after we've died. I certainly know my own death is coming and hopefully after I die people will be like, Well, fuck. Thank you for doing that thing you did that made my life a little funner or easier. Preserving the world for like 7 generations to come is this generations job. Then the next generation will be in charge of the next 7, so with that we can actually save the world through art and music. That's something we take pretty seriously, where a lot of people have taken to selling art and making it a business, something that's pretty ugly. We're certainly believers in what Bill & Ted said, two-man bands will save the world. Lightning Bolt, Shellshag, Japanther. There's a million two man/two woman/whatever it is bands. I fully fully believe that they will save the world. If you don't start believing that shit and visualising it fuck we're gonna have a hundred more oil companies just ruining our planet. Its a scary position to be in. We're basically on the front lines of a pretty intense battle at times.

<b>By restricting yourself to two people do you feel like your creativity is stimulated?</b>

Um no, I dunno. We certainly collaborate with a lot of people to make our albums and make our recordings, but the core of our group is two people. That's just like Hollywood, Bill & Ted, and Keanu Reeves predicting that stuff at a weird time. I feel like art predicts the present basically so just sticking to those philosophies like Super Mario Bros being an important movie, Bill & Ted. Things like that. Instead of having a religion you have things like that when you're a little kid and essentially America just worships Hollywood. I fully am not a fan of the Catholic church. Those fucking assholes have had a chokehold on people's creativity for a long time. It's just like 2 people it's much easier to be creative. It's limitless because you say, Just meet me on the bench at 23rd Street outside your work and we'll have a band practice, Yeah cool, right on. We sit for 40 minutes. I go back on my bicycle, and he goes back to work, and we had a band practice at a lunch meeting instead of, Well I can't get together. My girlfriend. Blah blah blah. That's where five people can really slow you fucking down where two people are just like, Hey we're going to Australia and Japan. Cool. What days? Awesome. We're doing that. It'd take a lot of approval to get five people to go on a tour like that, where Matt and I are on a very similar symbiotic page where we wanna travel and do this and have fun and spread the gospel that is a punk or some kind of truly indecent gospel of authenticity. I feel like it's not limiting it actually opens up a lot more possibilities.

<b>You kinda both have to be a big part of the band that way too.</b>

Well certainly yeah. We go through ebbs and flows of being like hyper critical of each other and saying, You're not working as hard as me, or I'm working harder than you, but that's all kinda bullshit. The more obstacles we've put up for each other the more obstacles there will be for both of us so we just have to work together by all means and don't fight against each other whatsoever. There's enough people out there trying to put up obstacles to stop you from doing great things that if you're doing it to your own friends it's really destructive. I think a lot of people spend a lot of time doing that. I know I've been a victim of and been guilty of that in my lifetime. Being mad at other people's success instead of working towards my own success with other people.

<b>What would you say has been the highlight of Japanther so far?</b>

Fucking hell. I guess like you really are stoked, as any artist would tell you, on really little things. Like when kids will come up to you and share stories about how your song helped them through a difficult situation. We have a song that's about divorce and a song that's about suicide, both written from very genuine places, and a lot of people approach us about those songs and just say, Hey, I wanna tell you this story, then you end up in tears and with a new friend. Things like that are really intense and pretty amazing. That's kinda the ultimate payback for any art. You can get money and live and get fast cars and whatever you want, but if someone's telling you that your expression helped them or touched their soul in a way, well, fuck, that's an ultimate goal right there. That's a highlight.

Certainly a lot of the shows we've played. We've done a lot of illegal shows where we played up on the Williamsburg bridge with our friends' band Ninjasonik or like out of the back of moving trucks in the middle of the street. Or just plugging into the light bulbs and playing shows for a lot of kids out on the street because the house is too crowded. Those type of shows are really fun. We continue to do kinda renegade things like playing in a museum with a shadow puppet show. Keeping it very fresh and young for us is very important, so I have no idea what the highlight would be. I have no fucking clue. I guess landing in australia for the first time was really pretty incredible and amazing. Just saying like, Wow, your drumming brought you here. Hearing our music on TV and having a lot of people contact us and say, Hey, your music is on TV. Like, that's amazing. That's also a lifelong dream that's come true. I've got to have all these dreams come true so I have no idea. There's so many highlights. I could go on for days and days. Flipping a car last night was a highlight. Pretty weird. Pretty fun.

<b>You're pretty into graffiti, right?</b>

Yeah, fuck yeah. I think that's really important. Its a sorta similar idea that helps us create our band, that those type of guys can make something out of nothing. All the best graffiti writers, they're not paid for paint. There's no way you can pay for as much paint as it would take for you to actually beat up a major city. I know that Glasgow is fucking burnt. I know tonnes of people who paint graffiti there. It's very similar to punk to me. The same idea of like, You fucking hate us. You don't wanna give us anything. We'll still make it happen. It's still gonna be cracking. It's gonna have funk and flavour to it, as a matter of fact, the funk and flavour is gonna be so much more real than anything else you can offer. And that's kinda the same mentality that we can go after with our band like, Well, y'know we don't have anything to create it with except for the tools that we have and we're gonna be as creative as possible with those tools and bring some serious authentic funk to the table. That's definitely something that we've always followed in New York City and always watched and loved. Those kids are inspiring. They're taking way bigger risks than any of these fucking assholes in Wall Street, or people in Chelsea in the big art galleries and stuff.These kids don't get paid for it, as a matter of fact, they have to pay quite a bit of money if they get caught. If they catch the really good ones they end up doing jail time so what the fuck. That's really inspiring to us for sure.

<b>Any last words or advice to finish on?</b>

Um yeah.  Stay young at heart. Travel as much as you can. Start a band if that's something that excites you. Dream as big as you can I guess. We sat down the other night to try to dream about a tour with Shellshag and we ended up really wanting to travel around the world together. I would just say dream as big as you can and that's the only limitation on life. Don't let anyone stop you. As big as you can dream is as far as you can get.