---
layout:        post
title:         "Yasmine Kittles"
date:          2010-07-27 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/yasmine-kittles-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/yasmine-kittles.jpg
permalink:     yasmine-kittles
---

<b>What do you do in Tearist?</b>

Well I sing. I also play metal, which are these like metal objects that we found just like randomly that have these really amazing percussive sounds. They were just kinda like in different yards. Every time we go somewhere we find a new piece of metal and it has such an amazing different sound that it can like completely change the song. If I lose a piece of metal it messes up what I'm trying to do. Like I lost a part of the band. I lost this pipe in New York in a cab. It was somebody else's fault. I cried. Not even joking. It was like the grossest piece of metal. So they tracked it down in New York.

<b>What do you tend to sing about?</b>

Well, it depends. I think it's usually pretty much directly related to whatever is going on at that exact moment, but I'll try to rephrase it in ways where noone will ever know if this song is about them. Sometimes people don't even understand what I'm saying in the songs. Like I'm half Persian, so sometimes a few words in Farsi sound better with what I'm trying to say. I never like to make anything too obvious. But, here's a little fact. For a while, at first, when Will and I began the band, he was really, really mean to me. Just like horrendously mean to me. Maybe he didn't feel that way, like we're just two different types of people: I'm pretty loud, and maybe some would say obnoxious; he's really, really quiet. A lot of the first songs - he doesn't know this - were just about how much I hated him. I don't know how he did not know. It's hidden. I just don't want anything to be too literal. I think that's really annoying, this is exactly what I'm singing about. I'm so depressed about this girl. Blah blah blah. It's just so annoying. That's not how my brain works.

<b>What does Will do in the group?</b>

He does everything, basically. Other than what I do. He programs the beats. He does everything live. He does nothing pre-programmed. It's a lot of work. We go in and out of synths so much, because we just don't have a lot of money and Will just actually prefers old synthesisers and old drum machines. At first I had a problem with that because it'd be the day before our tour and then we've lost every single drum track. I mean like every single programmed beat. That stuff somehow I've gotten used to, but it's like we'll be in the middle of a show and he'll lean over and be like, Uuuuh, our main synth gave. You still wanna play all the songs? It's like, Yup! But we never let the audience know, because I think that's real shitty. That's like the biggest pet peeve of mine. When it's like, here's an excuse for something we're doing that's making us sound fucked up. Or when someone's sick. It's not the audience's problem. Just figure out what you're going through, deal with it, and go ahead and it'll be fine.

<b>What's the performance piece you're working on right now?</b>

We're doing a thing for <a href=http://www.videothing.com/>Video Thing</a>. That's this guy in Los Angeles and he makes a lot of really amazing videos. He started off being more artistic about it. Then he started filming bands, and then he started to get a strange name, like people saying that he's a video-blog, which was not representative of him at all. This I think is to kinda counteract that, in a way where he takes it back. He asked me to do a piece where we're also playing the show. Basically, what I'm doing is for the duration of the show I'm going to be sitting at a desk on a computer and I'm going to be going between Pitchfork, Brooklyn Vegan, and Hypemachine. I'm going to be just sitting in the corner while this whole show is going on and printing the front pages of those for the duration. It should be maybe like 3 hours. I'm just gonna sit there. I'll start off kinda in my underwear then slowly I'm going to make a dress out of the pieces of paper. It's kind of exactly what's going on. Also, on the side there's going to be a television screen that's basically going to be a looped video of me just sitting at the desk. Not moving. So it looks kinda a little scary. Maybe every now and then you're gonna see me scratch my nose so you know it's not just a photo. So I'm essentially watching myself on the computer and then myself off-screen. But I'm not doing anything. Like this is nothing. I'm not creating anything, I'm not doing anything. So what is being projected on the television screen is more accurate of what's going on. Because it's nothing. Ultimately, I make this dress and then throughout the background of the piece we're going to have the sound of a printer just like through the PA that will already have timed out. But it's so low in the mix that you don't even know it's going on. Then - it doesn't matter where it is in the show - but it just gets to the point of like the highest frequency and then there's just gonna be a lot of loud sounds and then we'll start and I'll have like this whole dress on or whatever.

<b>Would you say that weird performances are your forte?</b>

I think we're drawn to it. The way we started as a band was we were kinda in this park and we saw this abandoned train car, which was really, really strange in this really nice green patch of grass. I looked at it and I was like I wish we could just plug in there and play. That's like the moment we became a band. I have a picture of it. I think we're both drawn to places where we don't feel comfortable because, not to be cliche, but like life isn't comfortable, whether or not you live a comfortable life. I think it takes a lot of that to kinda make the certain kind of music that we're making. That can be said for all music, but I really always wanna see what we can do. We played in this bookstore where a lot of bands play. I like it. It's called Family. It's an amazing art book store. We were kinda looking around like, This doesn't fit. This isn't working. Then Will looked up and above the doorway there was this tiny little loft area, so we played up there. I'm really, really fucking afraid of heights. When I'm playing though, for some reason, nothing affects me. Like being afraid of heights doesn't exist. I think we're more drawn to places where we shouldn't be playing. And aesthetically the way a a place looks is really interesting. I think it makes an experience.

<b>By putting yourself in that situation what do you think it creates?</b>

What I'm already singing about, whether or not you can hear it lyrically, is really a purging that I don't normally do. It kinda takes it to a level where everything I'm singing about is scary to me. Admitting I'm this fucked up person or admitting that like I've had these thoughts and they really are thoughts is scary, but you put it in a situation where nothing is safe. I think it makes it more real. I'm mostly inspired, and Will is too, by artistic movements and artists. The Theatre of Cruelty is a huge thing to me. The principles of that aren't about being cruel, more about allowing these animal instincts to kind of replace what you're taught. It's also trying to focus on forcing an audience out of their complacency. Like why should they feel comfortable? Audiences are so lazy. A lot of bands are lazy. It's different for everyone. Everyone wants to get something different out of their musical experience. But I'm just tired of the laziness.

<b>What's the deal with your 7 on PPM?</b>

Um, well Will is friends with Dean from <a href=http://www.myspace.com/nonoage>No Age</a>. We're always at <a href=http://www.thesmell.org/>the Smell</a>. It's a really, really awesome, very supportive community. Will's in another band called <a href=http://www.myspace.com/silverdaggers>Silver Daggers</a>, so he already kinda knew a lot of people or whatever. Then we started playing with this band. At our third show this guy Koondo, who had done the first <a href=http://www.myspace.com/mikamiko>Mika Miko</a> stuff and the first No Age stuff, just ran up to us and was like, I would love to record you guys for free. For Will, who had grown up in the scene, it was a really, really, really big deal. Like I at that time had never seen him that happy. Especially since our songs weren't even solidified.

So we did that last summer, but I'm a perfectionist and I was unhappy with the mix so I held onto it and we didn't release it. Then later on I realised I was happy with it. Another friend of mine took some of the songs and reran them. We did it on quarter inch tape. He mixed a couple again. So we're using half of his and half of Koondo's. It was already set like last September for that thing to be released, but now it's going to be released in October. Dean was really excited about what we're doing. He was at most of our first shows. He was on us all the time like, When am I gonna get this stuff? Now Will plays with No Age sometimes. So that's good. Like cuz our equipment fails so much, for him to have any amount of money is wonderful. Now he can buy a stand.