---
layout:        post
title:         "Ty Segal"
date:          2011-01-05 03:36:57
thumbnail_url: images/ty-segall-thumb.jpg
image_url:     images/ty-segall.jpg
permalink:     ty-segall
---

<b>How's working with a band changed your music?</b>

It's made it a lot more fun. Playing by yourself is really stressful. Too much pressure for me. I don't wanna do it any more. I used to feel if I recorded something and put it out I'd have to play it live the same way. Now I feel comfortable just making recordings and getting really weird.

<b>Have you always felt like you wanted to do this project as a band?</b>

It started off just me wanting to record stuff. The first thing I ever recorded was a full band style cassette tape. Then some people wanted me to play so I just started playing by myself because everybody else was busy. That developed into all those songs turning into one man band songs. Then I recorded this one man band style record. After that I realised I wanted to do something else.

<b>Do you feel like you need projects like <i>Sic Alps</i>, where you aren't in control creatively, to take a bit of time out?</b>

Oh yeah. Just playing is so fun. I don't always like being <i>the dude</i> in the band. I love playing drums. I love feeling like you're backing somebody up.

<b>I read you're thinking of slowing down your output.</b>

At first when I started releasing stuff I wanted to put out as much as I could just to get stuff out there. By no means of course putting out anything bad or that I didn't think was good, but I just kept going, kept trucking. Now I feel like slowly I've honed in more on what I'd actually like to put out.

I really wanna make the best record I can. That means saving everything that I think is good for this next record instead of putting it out on a single. I want all the songs be at least like a 9 out of 10. I wanna throw the song that's a 7&#189; out.

<b>How's that working out?</b>

It's been a long process, but it's been good. I've been working on this record from before <i>Melted</i> even came out. I'm about 75% done. I think I'm going to call it <i>Goodbye Bread</i>.

<b>Are there any new areas you're exploring?</b>

It's another step in the direction <i>Melted</i> went except it's not as fried. It's weirder. It's more mellow. It's more psychedelic. It's pretty dark and sarcastic. I'd like people to read the lyrics. I've never felt comfortable with my lyrics before. This time I actually do. For the first time I have a pinpointed idea of what I want to say about something. Every other time I've written stuff it's been more all over the place.